docs/index.md, before:

# Kelp-O-Matic

Segmentation Tools for Remotely Sensed RPAS Imagery

<div style="overflow: hidden; display: flex; justify-content:flex-start; gap:10px;">
    <a href="https://github.com/HakaiInstitute/kelp-o-matic/actions/workflows/unit-test.yml">
        <img alt="🧪 Unit Tests" src="https://github.com/HakaiInstitute/kelp-o-matic/actions/workflows/unit-test.yml/badge.svg" height="20px" />
    </a>

    <a href="https://github.com/HakaiInstitute/kelp-o-matic/blob/main/LICENSE.txt">
        <img alt="License" src="https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/kelp-o-matic/badges/license.svg" height="20px" />
    </a>

    <a href="https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/kelp-o-matic">
        <img alt="Version" src="https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/kelp-o-matic/badges/version.svg" height="20px" />
    </a>

    <a href="https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/462897183">
        <img alt="DOI" src="https://zenodo.org/badge/462897183.svg" height="20px" />
    </a>
</div>

***

## Getting Started

Please see the [Beginner Guide](beginner_guide/index.md) if you are new to Anaconda and command line
tools.

If you have worked with Anaconda before, start with the more
brief [installation instructions](installation.md), followed
by the documentation for the [CLI](cli.md) or [Python API](python_lib.md).

## Features

* Kelp presence/absence detection in RGB RPAS imagery.
* Kelp macrocystis/nereocystis detection in RGB RPAS imagery.
* Mussel presence/absence detection in RGB RPAS imagery.

![Kelp Gif](images/manley.gif)

## Contribute

If you find an issue using the tool, bug report can be files using the following links.
Comments or questions are also greatly appreciated!

- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/HakaiInstitute/kelp-o-matic/issues)
- [Source Code](https://github.com/HakaiInstitute/kelp-o-matic)

## License

The project is released under
the [MIT license](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tayden/kelp-o-matic/main/LICENSE.txt)

## Authors

- **Taylor Denouden** trained the neural networks and wrote the code and documentation.
- **Luba Reshitnyk** assembled the training dataset to produce the tool.
- **Sarah Schroeder** created the Beginner Guide.

Commit message:

Update docs index page
Better authorship, formatting, image loading performance

docs/index.md, after:

# Kelp-O-Matic

*Segmentation Tools for Remotely Sensed RPAS Imagery*

<div style="overflow: hidden; display: flex; justify-content:flex-start; gap:10px;">
    <a href="https://github.com/HakaiInstitute/kelp-o-matic/actions/workflows/unit-test.yml">
        <img alt="🧪 Unit Tests" src="https://github.com/HakaiInstitute/kelp-o-matic/actions/workflows/unit-test.yml/badge.svg" height="20px" />
    </a>

    <a href="https://github.com/HakaiInstitute/kelp-o-matic/blob/main/LICENSE.txt">
        <img alt="License" src="https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/kelp-o-matic/badges/license.svg" height="20px" />
    </a>

    <a href="https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/kelp-o-matic">
        <img alt="Version" src="https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/kelp-o-matic/badges/version.svg" height="20px" />
    </a>

    <a href="https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/462897183">
        <img alt="DOI" src="https://zenodo.org/badge/462897183.svg" height="20px" />
    </a>

</div>

***

## Getting Started

Please see the [Beginner Guide](beginner_guide/index.md) if you are new to Anaconda and command line
tools.

If you have worked with Anaconda before, start with the more
brief [installation instructions](installation.md), followed by the documentation for
the [CLI](cli.md) or [Python API](python_lib.md).

## Features

* Kelp presence/absence detection in RGB RPAS imagery.
* Kelp macrocystis/nereocystis detection in RGB RPAS imagery.
* Mussel presence/absence detection in RGB RPAS imagery.

![Kelp Gif](images/manley.gif){ loading=lazy }

## Contribute

If you find an issue while using Kelp-O-Matic, please file a bug report using the following link:

[Issue Tracker :material-github:](https://github.com/HakaiInstitute/kelp-o-matic/issues)

Comments and questions are also appreciated!

## License

Kelp-O-Matic is released under
the [MIT license](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tayden/kelp-o-matic/main/LICENSE.txt).

## Contact

[![Hakai](images/hakai_logo.png){ loading=lazy; width="300"; align=right }](https://hakai.org/)

This project was co-created at the [Hakai Institute](https://hakai.org) by:

- [**Taylor Denouden**](mailto:taylor.denouden@hakai.org) (Machine Learning + Software)
- [**Luba Reshitnyk**](mailto:luba.reshitnyk@hakai.org) (Scientific Application + Data)
